Feature/maui/sl popup v2 (#552)
MicrosoftDocs/CommunityToolkit: docs/maui/views/popup/popup-result.md

## Building a Popup

A `Popup<T>` can be created in XAML or C# as follows:

### XAML

The following section covers how to create a `Popup<T>` using XAML.

#### Defining your Popup

The easiest way to create a `Popup<T>` is to add a new `.NET MAUI ContentView (XAML)` to your project, this will create 2 files; a _*.xaml_ file and a _*.xaml.cs_ file. The contents of each file can be replaced with the following:

##### .xaml

```xaml
<toolkit:Popup
    xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
    xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
    xmlns:toolkit="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2022/maui/toolkit"
    x:TypeArguments="system:Boolean"
    x:Class="MyProject.ReturnResultPopup">

    <VerticalStackLayout>
        <Label Text="This is a very important message! Do you agree?" />

        <Button Text="Yes" 
                Clicked="OnYesButtonClicked" />

        <Button Text="No"
                Clicked="OnNoButtonClicked" />
    
    </VerticalStackLayout>
    
</toolkit:Popup>
```

##### .xaml.cs

```csharp

> public partial class ReturnResultPopup : ContentView

Reviewer: In xaml we use `toolkit:Popup`, should the code-behind follow the same type or omit it?

    {
        await CloseAsync(false);
    }
}
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If the code behind file is not created along with the call to `InitializeComponent` then an exception will be thrown when trying to display your `Popup`.

### C#

The following section covers how to create a `Popup` using C#.

```csharp
using CommunityToolkit.Maui.Views;

namespace MyProject;

public class ReturnResultPopup : Popup<bool>
{
    public ReturnResultPopup()
    {
        var yesButton = new Button { Text = "Yes" };
        yesButton.Clicked += OnYesButtonClicked;

        var noButton = new Button { Text = "No" };
        noButton.Clicked += OnNoButtonClicked;

        Content = new VerticalStackLayout
        {
            Children = 
            {
                new Label { Text = "This is a very important message! Do you agree?" },
                
                yesButton,
                noButton
            }
        };
    }

    async void OnYesButtonClicked(object? sender, EventArgs e)
    {
        await CloseAsync(true);
    }
    
    async void OnNoButtonClicked(object? sender, EventArgs e)
    {
        await CloseAsync(false);
    }
```

> The `Close` method allows for an `object` value to be supplied, this will be the resulting return value. 

Reviewer: I would change `object` for something like `desired type`, because we use generic there and saying that the method allows a `object` could cause confusion, on users thinking that the value will be `object` and not the type that they specify in the Popup's definition. In other words, with

> The `Close` method allows for an `object`
 
I imagine that Close method has this signature
`void Close(object result)`

instead of 
`void Close (T result)`

## Awaiting the result from a Popup

In order to await the result the `ShowPopupAsync` method must be used as follows:

```csharp
using CommunityToolkit.Maui.Views;

public class MyPage : ContentPage
{
    public async Task DisplayPopup()
    {
        var popup = new ReturnResultPopup();

>         var result = await this.ShowPopupAsync(popup, CancellationToken.None);

Reviewer: If I can remember well, the `ShowPopupAsync` doesn't return an `object` it returns an `IPopupResult<T>` instead, so the cast would never be `true`, right?

        await CloseAsync(false);
    }
}
```

The use of `Popup<bool>` must match the definition in the XAML through the use of `x:TypeArguments`.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If the code behind file is not created along with the call to `InitializeComponent` then an exception will be thrown when trying to display your `Popup`.

### C#

The following section covers how to create a `Popup` using C#.

```csharp
using CommunityToolkit.Maui.Views;

namespace MyProject;

public class ReturnResultPopup : Popup<bool>
{
    public ReturnResultPopup()
    {
        var yesButton = new Button { Text = "Yes" };
        yesButton.Clicked += OnYesButtonClicked;

        var noButton = new Button { Text = "No" };
        noButton.Clicked += OnNoButtonClicked;

        Content = new VerticalStackLayout
        {
            HorizontalOptions = LayoutOptions.Center,
            VerticalOptions = LayoutOptions.Center,
            Children = 
            {
                new Label { Text = "This is a very important message! Do you agree?" },
                
                yesButton,
                noButton
            }
        };
    }

    async void OnYesButtonClicked(object? sender, EventArgs e)
    {

>         await CloseAsync(true);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        await Close(true);
```

    }
    
    async void OnNoButtonClicked(object? sender, EventArgs e)
    {
        await CloseAsync(false);
    }
}
```

The `Close` method allows for a value to be supplied, this will be the resulting return value. The use of generics in `Popup<T>` provides type-safety when returning values from a Popup.

## Awaiting the result from a Popup

In order to await the result the `ShowPopupAsync` method must be used as follows:

```csharp
using CommunityToolkit.Maui.Views;

public class MyPage : ContentPage
{
    public async Task DisplayPopup()
    {
        var popup = new ReturnResultPopup();

        // The type parameter must match the type returned from the popup.

>         IPopupResult<bool> result = await this.ShowPopupAsync(popup, CancellationToken.None);

Reviewer 2: Small nit (and you can totally ignore this) - I recommend naming this variable `popupResult` so that the `if` statement below becomes more readable, e.g. `if(popupResult.Result)`

        if (result.WasDismissedByTappingOutsideOfPopup)
        {
            return;
        }

>         if (result.Result)

Reviewer 2: Let's add some color to this `if` statement just so that folks don't try calling `if(result.Result)` when the type is an `int`.

```suggestion
        if (result.Result is true)
```

        {
            // Yes was tapped
        }
        else
        {
            // No was tapped
        }
    }
}
```

![Popup with result](../../images/views/popup/popup-result.png "Popup rendering with two buttons that allow for a result to be returned")

> > [!NOTE]

Reviewer 2: Should this be a Warning instead of a Note? I think both work. Totally up to you!

> > The `WasDismissedByTappingOutsideOfPopup` property enables developers to confirm whether the Popup was dismissed in a positive manner - programmatically or whether the user tapped outside of the Popup. If `WasDismissedByTappingOutsideOfPopup` is `true` then the `Result` property will always be `null` or `default`.

Reviewer 2: Feel free to ignore this recommendation, but I think we can condense the message here

```suggestion
> If `WasDismissedByTappingOutsideOfPopup` is `true` then the `Result` property will always be `null` or `default`.
```

---
title: Popup<T> - .NET MAUI Community Toolkit
author: bijington
description: Popup<T> enables developers to return a value from a popup when it is dismissed.
ms.date: 05/19/2025
---

# Returning a value from a Popup

> The .NET MAUI Community Toolkit provides the ability to show a [Popup](../Popup.md) to a user. A common more complex scenario is to display a `Popup` and await for a result to be returned when that `Popup` is dismissed. This page covers how the `Popup<T>` class can be used to achieve the desired behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The .NET MAUI Community Toolkit provides the ability to show a [Popup](../Popup.md) to a user. The Toolkit also enables a common, more complex, scenario where a developer displays a `Popup` and `await` its result to be returned when that `Popup` is dismissed. This page covers how the `Popup<T>` class can be used to achieve the desired behavior.
```

## Building a Popup

A `Popup<T>` can be created in XAML or C# as follows:

### Building a Popup in XAML

The following section covers how to create a `Popup<T>` using XAML.

#### Defining your Popup

The easiest way to create a `Popup<T>` is to add a new `.NET MAUI ContentView (XAML)` to your project, this will create 2 files; a _*.xaml_ file and a _*.xaml.cs_ file. The contents of each file can be replaced with the following:

> ##### .XAML

Reviewer 2: Using `.xaml` in a markdown heading is a bit jarring. Let's just call this section `XAML File`

```suggestion
##### XAML File
```
